September 2004.
Before the airport closed down, people stood by the airport fence on Oderstrasse every day. Some waited for hours as the planes took off and landed less and less frequently.
What was on their minds?
Technology is just amazing...
Here you don’t think about anything except freedom,
you feel completely free.
It’s great.
When I’m sitting here,
everything seems alright with the world.
Behind the fence you have to deal with other people,
talk to them, the usual.
Nobody is bothering me here.
I just sit, watch and think.
He’s passing for the fourth time already.
As if anyone was going to hijack planes here at this stage.
That one is taking off from up there now.+
Then it’ll disappear.
...blowing out toxic fumes.
Damn you!
When you pass an airport like this on your way home,
at first you just gawk at it.
I’ve never been to Majorca or anything...
Humans can’t fly after all.
I’m scared of flying as well.
But yeah, an airport is for dreaming, too,
even though they usually just crash.
At the end of the day
it’s no different from going back and forth on the tram,
it’s all just a question of what you’re used to.
It’s all so uncertain.
You wouldn’t dare to get in.
I’ll go on a train, but not on an airplane.
I’m afraid of that...
Because I’ve never flown on a plane,
that’s just it.
Some people get in, just like that...
And others are afraid.
Lots of people are afraid.
I noticed that she likes all the noise.
So I often come here to get her to sleep.
Always at the times when they take off.
For example at 7 and at 12
there are planes landing or taking off.
Lots take off when the work day is over.
And I always try to be here at those times.
Above all, I love planes.
That’s part of the reason.
I also look at them myself.
And when they take off I dream of going somewhere else.
For example to Italy,
my home country.
Unfortunately we only go once a year,
but by car and not by plane.
We’re a big family, two children, a wife,
so it’s cheaper to go by car.